---
title: Kosko 1.0 Released
---

It has been a long time since the last stable release v0.9. Recently, I decide to implement some features that I always want to have at work. Hope these new features can also help you.

## Nested Manifests

In v1.0, arrays and functions in components are flattened. This is useful for sharing manifests across components.

For instance, a database in Kubernetes is typically composed by a `Deployment` and a `Service`. To include a database in a component, before v1.0, you have to flatten these two manifests in the component by yourself. After v1.0, they are flattened automatically.

In this way, a database can be used as a single resource, which can be used everywhere in your components.

```js
function createDatabase() {
  return [new Deployment(), new Service()];
}

// Before v1.0
module.exports = [new Deployment(), ...createDatabase()];

// After v1.0
module.exports = [new Deployment(), createDatabase()];
```

## More Information in `ValidationError`

There was only `path` and `index` in `ValidationError` before v1.0. Sometimes it might be difficult to find where the error is. In v1.0, `apiVersion`, `kind`, `namespace` and `name` are added to `ValidationError`. The following is an example of the new error message.

```shell
ValidationError: data.metadata.annotations['dependencies'] should be string
- path: ".../components/config-api"
- index: [0]
- kind: "apps/v1/Deployment"
- name: "config-api"
    at resolveComponent (.../node_modules/@kosko/generate/src/generate.ts:81:15)
    at resolveComponent (.../node_modules/@kosko/generate/src/generate.ts:59:28)
    at Object.generate (.../node_modules/@kosko/generate/src/generate.ts:134:30)
    at generateHandler (.../node_modules/@kosko/cli/src/commands/generate/index.ts:156:18)
    at handler (.../node_modules/@kosko/cli/src/commands/generate/index.ts:200:20)
    at Object.run (.../node_modules/@kosko/cli/src/index.ts:12:3)
```

## Loading Kubernetes YAML

If you have been using Kubernetes for a while, you may have a lot of existing Kubernetes YAML files just like me. Instead of migrating YAML into JavaScript, try use the new package `@kosko/yaml`.

`@kosko/yaml` reads YAML files and transforms data into [kubernetes-models](https://github.com/tommy351/kubernetes-models-ts) classes, so your manifests are validated against Kubernetes OpenAPI schema.

```js
const { loadFile } = require("@kosko/yaml");

module.exports = loadFile("manifest.yaml");
```

This package works better with "nested manifests", so please don't forget to upgrade to Kosko v1.0 first.

For more details, please check [here](/docs/components/loading-kubernetes-yaml).

## Breaking Changes

- Drop support for Node.js 8.
- `@kosko/generate`
  - The type of `Manifest.index` and `ValidationError.index` is changed from `number` to `number[]`.
  - The type of `Manifest.data` is changed from `any` to `unknown`.
