---
title: "Kosko 1.1: ESM Support"
---

Kosko comes with ECMAScript modules (ESM) support since v1.1. You can write components and environments in native ESM files. The following packages are updated for ESM support. Please make sure to update these packages before using ESM.

- `@kosko/cli` - 1.2.0
- `@kosko/env` - 1.1.0
- `@kosko/generate` - 1.1.0
- `kosko` - 1.1.0
- `@kosko/migrate` - 2.0.0
- `@kosko/require` - 2.0.0
- `@kosko/yaml` - 1.0.0

The biggest difference between CommonJS and ESM is that `@kosko/env` is asynchronous in ESM. This is because `import()` is asynchronous. But don't freak out, it won't break your current code at all. `@kosko/env` is still synchronous in CommonJS.

When retrieving environments in ESM, you **MUST** add `await` as the example below.

```js
import env from "@kosko/env";

const globalParams = await env.global();
const componentParams = await env.component("demo");
```

Instead of `module.exports`, export components or environments with `export default`.

```js
import { Deployment } from "kubernetes-models/apps/v1/Deployment";
import { Service } from "kubernetes-models/v1/Service";

export default [new Deployment({}), new Service({})];
```

For more details about how to enable ESM or programmatical usage, please check [here](/docs/ecmascript-modules).

## Breaking Changes

### `@kosko/yaml`

`loadString` and `getResourceModule` functions become asynchronous because of ESM support.

### `@kosko/migrate`

`migrate` and `migrateString` functions become asynchronous because of the breaking changes of `@kosko/yaml` package.

### `@kosko/require`

`resolve` function no longer allows `resolve.AsyncOpts` as options, please use `ResolveOptions` instead.

## kubernetes-models

[kubernetes-models](https://github.com/tommy351/kubernetes-models-ts) is also updated for ESM support.

- `@kubernetes-models/base` - 1.2.0
- `@kubernetes-models/cert-manager` - 1.1.0
- `@kubernetes-models/contour` - 1.1.0
- `@kubernetes-models/crd-generate` - 1.2.0
- `@kubernetes-models/gke` - 1.1.0
- `kubernetes-models` - 1.1.0
- `@kubernetes-models/openapi-generate` - 1.2.0
- `@kubernetes-models/prometheus-operator` - 1.1.0
- `@kubernetes-models/read-input` - 1.1.0
- `@kubernetes-models/sealed-secrets` - 1.1.0
- `@kubernetes-models/string-util` - 1.1.0
- `@kubernetes-models/validate` - 1.1.0
